# The CrunchyVicar Project

## Project description

The purpose of this project is to work towards a standard for expressing and exchanging units of information that are structured in a semantically meaningful way.

It came into existence as a result of my never-ending desire to label and classify things both physical and digital in the most generally useful way possible. I've evaluated many systems and solutions for this but all of them turned out to suffer from various combinations of being too domain-specific, too complicated, too closed/proprietary or otherwise suffering from some fatal flaw within the context of my use cases.


## Status & Roadmap

This project is in a very early phase and currently consists mostly of loose notes, code experiments and ideas in my head.

As with many abstract and ambitious projects, there's a pretty good chance this will end up as a dead project that never gets out of its conceptual phase. If, through some combination of chance and inspiration, it does end up seeing significant development, I expect the roadmap to be something along the following lines:

1.  Gather the more promising of the various loose bits, try to apply some structure, and put them in this repository (if you're reading this, that means that this step at least is underway).
2.  Decide on a first version of the basic concepts and functionality.
3.  Build a first proof-of-concept implementation.
4.  Evaluate the proof-of-concept in various practical scenarios and decide on improvements to the basic concepts and functionality.
5.  Go through as many iterations of revising the basic concepts and proof-of-concept implementations as are necessary to either reach a sufficiently useful and stable version of the standard, or to determine that the project goals simply aren't realistic.
6.  Develop stable implementations of the standard and/or encourage others to do so, so that it might see actual practical use.


Depending on the degree of success in each phase, I may decide to make this repository publicly available, and eventually actively try to involve others.


## Explanation of the name

The current project name is a temporary working name and was generated by appending two randomly picked words from an English wordlist. Eventually, a more descriptive name will probably have to be chosen. Suggestions are welcome at any time.


## A word on intellectual property

Based on my research so far, there appear to be no current projects trying to exactly what I'm trying to do (although some share several core concepts, such as RDF). This means whatever I come up with could potentially be seen as valuable intellectual property.

Within this context, it is my intention to keep everything related to this project as free, open and unencumbered as possible. At the same time, I don't want to make rash decisions with regards to licensing and related matters. Since there's currently no urgency, until further notice all work on this project is copyrighted by me. If and when it becomes relevant, I will work towards making sure this project becomes free and unencumbered, in the spirit of free software.

Until then, if the copyright on these works gets in the way of something you want to do, please contact me.


All works in this repository are © Copyright 2014, 2015 Arjen Meek.
